# Blockchain Identity


## Abstract
###### This whitepaper describes a platform that could be used to recognize and verify internet users using a public key originating from a browser based Ethereum node. The public key acts much like a traditional browser cookie, remaining on the users computer as a stable identifier across browsing sessions. The cookie however, has no practical capabilities in public key cryptography, whereas the Ethereum public key can be used like a PGP key to announce to the world how to reach you.
					[[  Public Key Cryptography IMAGE ]]
 The public key acts as a code which other nodes can encrypt pieces of data with. When data is hashed with this public key, the only person that will be able to view this data is the person in charge of the node, being the person who has the private key + password. Using a public key based browser cookie allows us to not only recongize an entity across browser sessions, but it also opens up an opportunity for data verification and let the users reap benefits from their social networks. New public key protocols such as zero-knowledge-proofs(https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/01/15/privacy-on-the-blockchain/), solves the impossibly transparent nature of the blockchain, and allows users to show information to one another only if they agree to do so. The blockchain companies will be able to utilize a protocol that not only redundantly stores data on a consensus ledger, but they will be able to store data on this blockchain and have complete control on who gets to see this data. This opens up an opportunity for an innovation in online identity, where a user's data can be proven without being shared, increasing security and privacy. 
 					[[ public key encryption proofs ]]
 The eventual implications of such a system, is that the user is put in charge of their identity and the financial aspects of the data that is associated with it. There are two main problems that this platform is designed to solve. How can we know if an entity is real and how do we know the data truly belongs to them? This platforms hopes to solve this using two token-based economic approaches: a credibility based economy, and a data based economy. Credibility is defined as the probability that you are a real entity and that you are able to vouch for other entities you know are real. Data is defined as anything you use to tell the world who you are. We hope to have users in control of an encrypted copy of this data and have the ability to accumulate money to add credibility to the network. A user requires credibility to store data, and requires data to gain credibility.

## Online Identity in Blockchain world
###### Current approaches to creating a robust and stable online identifier usually involves asking a user to sign in using one of our giant social media networks. Why social media is such a key area in identity and verification is the simple fact that any physical characteristic about you can be copied. Not that physical identifiers are useless, but the things about you that are very difficult to reproduce are your complex relationships and things contained in your head (passwords). Social networks tell the world who you are and who you interact with. 

Facebook's near monopoly in the social media arena has caused an interesting chaos in the online identity market. There is a growing distrust in having a single company control your digital identity, and sell the data off as they please. Many people have been careful about not presenting too much information on facebook. Facebook is a company that offers free service in exchange for the financial rights to you data. Platforms such as Facebook, will be very useful to blockchain identity companies as they contain all the data necessary to verify personhood, although their methods of storing data and selling it, will be an antiquated approach as far as this platform is concerned. The main problem with Facebook, is the privacy issues as well as their inability to tell who is a real user and who is a bot. 
					[[ Facebook numbers vs real user numbers ]]
Blockchain identity systems can help reduce the amount of sensitive information is stored on a server, by utilizing public key cryptography we can move towards an encrypted online reality, that offers one time access to other trusted users. Corporations are asked to shoulder too much burden, as a single security hole can result in millions of identities being compromised. The user give's up control of their personal information in exchange for convenience. The traditional combination of online identity has been the use of a cookie + email/password. This platform would be using a combination of Ethereum public-key to create a stable identifier. The beauty of having a public-key instead of a cookie, is that we can do public key encryption, allowing the user to prove information without necessarily sharing it. This combined with a financially incentivized economy that encourages users to become recognizeable, without sacrificing their privacy.  

## Economy of Credibility
###### The economy of credibility operates through financial gambles on another users' identity creating a proof-of-trust in this person. This gamble will hold a financial reward if the majority of nodes agree with the users' bet, whether it's yes or no. In this way there will be financial incentive to both verify your friends, and find nodes who either don't have a solid identity behind them. With this design the user will be in complete control of their identity, data and any financial aspects as consequence. The ability to control who accesses your identity is referred to as [Self-Sovereign-Identity](http://www.coindesk.com/path-self-sovereign-identity/). With Self-Sovereign-Identity a user can simultaneously stay private while having a public identity online. We refer to these users as nodes because each node may be a large organization or single corporate entity. At the current stage of online identity we have the issue of fragmentation which may be in part to peoples reluctance to give a single identity full financial and personal control over their identity. 

## Competition vs Cooperation
###### We hope many other companies decide to start identity platforms as well to increase the overall strength of blockchain verification. We expect many blockchain companies will be built on top of Ethereum, and thus would encourage communication standards between the different companies to help strengthen the unity of the identity platform. An interesting aspect of the platform proposed in this whitepaper, is that as other blockchain platforms increase their database of identities, they become a very profitable node on our network and would have to decidedly avoid the profit that comes with the large amount of credibility a public intity has, especially entities involved in verificiation. The highest levels of verificaiton are handed out by the largest authority, being approved by the national governments. (Doctor verifies birth certificate, ICBC verifies license etc...) To encourage cooperation between blockchain identity platforms, and avoid the frustrations of fragmented digital identity, the platform could allow users to create crowdfunding for smart-contracts to be written, bridging identities between platforms. Thanks to the rapid innovation in encryption technologies, a platform such as this will be able to allow users to choose which entity is allowed to see which data, Having full control over their digital identities, unless the network decides they aren't real, or that a certain piece of data doesn't actualy belong to this node. 


## Data Economy
###### The financial aspects that are going to play into user controlled data will without a doubt become one of the more interesting areas of this platform. As the identity economy grows, users will at some point have advertisers asking to see personal information. This type of proposal indicates a changing in the way advertisers gain access to information. Current models tend to offer a free service and then sell the data that is derived from users using the service. What could develop in the blockchain world is that services will tend to charge micro payments depending on how much of the service you would like to use. ie. Augur, Oraclize, Storj. Advertisers are left with a different landscape. Instead of a central service keeping track of it's users, there are going to be many services that can link activities to a public key (instead of cookie). TODO. 


## Credibility & Data
###### The Credibility economy will be based around two concepts. Credibility and Data, which are not necessarily related but require one another. In this system credibility will be how much money your own personal identity market is making, which is defined as the profit margin between people gambling "yes" on the validity of your identity and the people gambling "no" on the validity of your identity.
[[ IMAGE REQUIRED ]]
 Your data will be everything you use to let the online world know who you are. There may be situations where a node is credible but is claiming anothers persons data to be their own. 



## Disputes
###### A data dispute will create a market where users actively communicate to both parties and try to validate them. Three outcomes can come from this. Either node 1 gets claim on data, node 2 gets claim on data, or neither has valid claim on the data which will subsequently erase the data from the network. This is a complex game theory problem that needs to be reviewed intensively. If another platforms smart-contract is hacked then we can assume 

## Centralization vs Decentralization
###### Temporary centrally funded structures to support new users? It will be vital for a new node on the network to sign up with a very credible node to avoid being devoured by the network. The smart contracts could be coded, to allow for a multi-sig node that can do direct verification, such as encrypting drivers license numbers, proof of address or any of the typical centralized verification approaches. Decentralization is an efficient way to delegating power in my opinion and offers higher security, however, it is a difficult approach when the network is small. Crowdsourced economies work better when the crowd is large (ie. Wikipedia, Stack Exchange). For this reason it may be smart to have a pre-programmed centralized aspect that fades over time, as a way to transition into a fully decentralized identity platform. 

## Security 
###### Game Theory issues and processes for funding bug bounties and code audits should be discussed here.......The main problem with running a decentralized service, is the game theory holes that can open up. We need to cover the weak areas and the strong areas of this platforms approach. An obvious weakpoint is the ability for someone to create thousands of nodes and then create a self-reinforcing ring of nodes that all verify eachother. This attack however, would cost a lot of money to start up and would rest on a very fragile foundation. This kind of attack would have to be mitigated by groups of users who are able to discover the collusion, and ultimately see that this friendship-ring is not backed by any primary data (ie. name, email, picture etc..). 

## Lost Password
###### If access to the Ethereum wallet is lost, there should be a mechanism to recover. ie. beneficiary, data-proofs, social network? Regardless the node will need a new public-key and all data which was encrypted with the previous public key will need to be taken down and re-encrypted. Otherwise there could be no recovery mechanism and a user could create a new account and dispute the data of his previous account. He should win this dispute, since the old account won't have a good argument, being non existant. We could have a mechanism to mark nodes as exstinct, opening them up to be gambled against, which will result in the node being wiped from the network.